---
title: The smartest person you know
---

I just remembered something, a little thorn burrowed deep inside my chest. Before my 8th grade graduation, each teacher was tasked with recommending a track for their respective classes. I don't remember much about middle school — the names and faces of my teachers are blurs — but the one thing I do remember the cards I was dealt. Standard. All across the board. In math, I compromised, opting to join honours instead of the advanced class my friends went off to. I entered physics in standard, then swapped to honours within a week. I liked my English teachers well enough, so I remained in standard for that year, then transferred up to honours.

As I aged, I remained on my upwards trajectory. In my junior year, I enrolled in AP US History, a class with the second-lowest pass rate of any AP. In all subjects, teachers constantly commented on my exceptionalism. According to them, I participated more than anyone, strongly understood the text, produced exceptional work, earned high marks on tests (without studying, mind you), and empathized with others. I was awarded for 'best exemplifying the spirit of discovery and academic pursuit' in my school of 2,500, and I became one of the school's 10 national merit scholars on the basis of a remarkable PSAT score. In my senior year I didn't slow down, taking APs across the board and earning myself a 1520 on the SAT, with a 780 in English.

If all this is true, it naturally begs the question: what went wrong in middle school? Did my teachers hate me? Was it a fluke? No, and the exact same thing went wrong every single year thereafter: my grades sucked. Somehow, despite finding myself well inside the supposed 99th percentile of English ability, I barely scrapped together a C+ before I graduated 11th grade, and this pattern appeared across all subjects.

Why? A multitude of factors. The most naive explanation would be to say that there were simply things I cared more about, like programming and skiing.